The President:
Over the last few weeks, I've
been making the case that we
need to act now on
the American Jobs Act,
so we can put folks back to work
and start building an economy
that lasts into the future.
Education is an essential
part of this economic agenda.
It is an undeniable fact that
countries who out-educate us
today will out-compete
us tomorrow.
Businesses will hire wherever
the highly-skilled and
highly-trained
workers are located.
But today, our students are
sliding against their peers
around the globe.
Today, our kids trail too many
other countries in math and
science and reading.
As many as a quarter of
our students aren't even
finishing high school.
And we've fallen to 16th in the
proportion of our young people
with a college degree, even
though we know that 60% of new
jobs in the coming decade
will require more than a high
school diploma.
What this means is that if
we're serious about building an
economy that lasts -- an economy
in which hard work pays off with
the opportunity for solid
middle class jobs --
we had better be
serious about education.
We have to pick up our game
and raise our standards.
As a nation, we have an
obligation to make sure that all
children have the resources
they need to learn --
quality schools, good teachers,
the latest textbooks and the
right technology.
That's why the jobs bill I sent
to Congress would put tens of
thousands of teachers back
to work across the country,
and modernize at
least 35,000 schools.
That's why Congress should
pass that bill right now.
But money alone won't solve
our education problems.
We also need reform.
We need to make sure that every
classroom is a place of high
expectations and
high performance.
That's been our vision
since taking office.
And that's why instead of just
pouring money into the system
that wasn't working, we launched
a competition called Race
to the Top.
To all 50 states, we said,
"If you show us the most
innovative plans to improve
teacher quality and student
achievement, we'll
show you the money."
For less than 1% of what we
spend on education each year,
Race to the Top has led states
across the country to raise
their standards for
teaching and learning.
These standards were
developed, not by Washington,
but by Republican and
Democratic governors throughout
the country.
And since then, we have seen
what's possible when reform
isn't just a top-down mandate,
but the work of local teachers
and principals; school
boards and communities.
That's why in my State of
the Union address this year,
I said to Congress, you need to
reform the No Child Left Behind
law based on the same
principles that have guided
Race to the Top.
While the goals behind No Child
Left Behind were admirable,
experience has taught us that
the law has some serious flaws
that are hurting our children
instead of helping them.
Teachers are being forced
to teach to the test,
while subjects like history and
science are being squeezed out.
And in order to avoid having
their schools labeled as
failures, some states lowered
their standards in a race to
the bottom.
These problems have been obvious
to parents and educators all
over this country for years.
But for years, Congress
has failed to fix them.
So now, I will.
Our kids only get one shot
at a decent education.
And they can't afford
to wait any longer.
So yesterday, I announced that
we'll be giving states more
flexibility to meet high
standards for teaching
and learning.
It's time for us to let states
and schools and teachers come up
with innovative ways to give our
children the skills they need to
compete for the
jobs of the future.
This will make a huge difference
in the lives of students all
across the country.
For example, yesterday,
I was with Ricci Hall,
the principal of a school in
Worcester, Massachusetts.
Every single student who
graduated from Ricci's school in
the last three years
went on to college.
But because they didn't meet
the standards of No Child Left
Behind, Ricci's school was
labeled as failing last year.
That will change because
of what we did yesterday.
From now on, we'll be able
to encourage the progress at
schools like Ricci's.
From now on, people
like John Becker,
who teaches at one of the
highest-performing middle
schools in D.C., will be able
to focus on teaching his 4th
graders math in ways that
improves their performance
instead of just
teaching to a test.
Superintendents like Dave Estrop
from Ohio will be able to focus
on improving teaching and
learning in his district instead
of spending all his time on
bureaucratic mandates from
Washington that
don't get results.
This isn't just the right
thing to do for our kids --
it's the right thing to do for
our country, and our future.
It's time to put our
teachers back on the job.
It's time to rebuild and
modernize our schools.
And it's time to raise our
standards, up our game,
and do everything it takes to
prepare our children to succeed
in the global economy.
Now is the time to once again
make our education system the
envy of the world.
Thanks for listening.